---
author: Aleksandar Todorović
comments: false
date: 2014-12-28 00:30:10+00:00
layout: post
slug: top-quotes-2014
title: Top Motivational Quotes I Discovered in 2014
categories: en
tags:
- personal
image:
  feature: abstract-1-3
---

So, everybody is sharing a list of something they came up with in the year behind them. I'm going to step it up a little. I present to you a very special list of mine. I represent to you the list of quotes that kept me motivated and inspired in 2014. This list is _very _special to me and I've decided to give it to you guys as a reward for reading my blog.

So, here we go:




  * **Latin: ** Imperare sibi maximum imperium est. - To rule yourself is the ultimate power.


  * **Duane Michals:**  Trust that little voice in your head that says "Wouldn't it be interesting if..." And then do it.


  * **Friedrich Nietzsche:** In individuals, insanity is rare; but in groups, parties, nations, and epochs it is the rule.


  * **Joseph Brodsky:** There are worse crimes than burning books. One of them is not reading them.


  * **Oscar Wilde:** Give a man mask and he'll tell you the truth.


  * **Jim Morrison: ** There can't be any large-scale revolution until there's a personal revolution, on an individual level. It's got to happen inside first.


  * **Napoleon Hill: ** Patience, persistence and perspiration make an unbeatable combination for success.


  * **Mark Twain: ** Never let your school interfere with your education.


  * **Mark Victor Hansen:**  Don't wait until everything is just right. It will never be perfect. There will always be challenges, obstacles and less than perfect conditions. So what. Get started now. With each step you take, you will grow stronger and stronger, more and more skilled, more and more self-confident and more and more successful.


  * **Michael Jordan:**  I can accept failure, everyone fails at something. But I can't accept not trying.


  * **Mae West:**  You only live once, but if you do it right, once is enough.


  * **Frank Zappa:**  If you end up with a boring miserable life because you listened to your mom, your dad, your teacher, your priest, or some guy on television telling you how to do your shit, then you deserve it.


  * **Will Smith:** You don't try to build a wall. You don't set out to build a wall. You don't say, "I'm gonna build the biggest baddest greatest wall, that's ever been build,", you don't start there. You say, "I'm gonna lay this brick, as perfectly as a brick can be laid," and you do that, every single day. And soon you have a wall.


Now, I'm going to represent to you a list of quotes taken from the book called [What The Hell is Saint Louis Thinking? (2014)](http://stlcurator.com/henry-goldkamp-what-the-hell-stl/). It's a book written by the city itself. It's written by hundreds of citizens of Saint Louis and there are some quite interesting quotes there.




  * We all drive on, walk past each other, not really knowing who we are. We’re all just strangers passing in the street, never stopping or taking the time.


  * There is no reason to simply exist. You need to exist for a reason. That reason can be silly to everyone but you. Hold it dear to your heart. Never forget it and never deny it for it is the reason to keep sucking oxygen.


  * What you do in your life changes what someone else does in theirs, and that changes everything.


  * We are all raindrops. We might seem small and insignificant but together we have the power of the world.


  * Fear keeps me from dreaming so I will not live my life in fear!


Now, I'm going to share with you a song that kept me motivated in the 2014.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LkCkCPfDmqQ

Happy 2015. guys! Feel free to share some quote in the comments that influenced you the most in the year behind us!

You might also want to check out [Best (Linux) Programs and Services I've Started Using in 2014](https://aleksandartodorovic.wordpress.com/2015/01/10/best-linux-programs-and-services-in-2014/).
