---
author: Aleksandar Todorović
comments: false
date: 2015-01-01 00:13:20+00:00
layout: post
slug: blog-stats-2014
title: Blog Stats for the Year 2014. (Happy 2015!)
categories: en
tags:
- personal
image:
  feature: abstract-1-3
---

This blog is active since July the 12th (so almost a half of a year).




  * Number of views: 4,389


  * Number of visitors: 2,616


  * Number of posts: 53


Got most of my views from:


  1. search engines (973) (898 from Google)


  2. Reddit (852)


  3. Twitter (282)


Top countries:


  * United States – 1,058 views


  * Bosnia & Herzegovina – 824 views


  * Serbia – 698 views


Other countries with over 100 views: United Kingdom (135), Canada (134), Croatia (132), Germany (118), and India (111).

Top 10 pages (with the number of views in brackets):


  1. Home page/Archive (795)


  2. Top Motivational Quotes I've Discovered in 2014 (666)


  3. Ko koga špijunira u političkom vrhu BiH? (2. dio) (465)


  4. Some Basic Facebook “Hacks” - Hack no. 3: See Locked Profile Picture in Full Size (359)


  5. Get Office 365 licence for free! [A Little Contest] (299)


  6. Some Basic Facebook “Hacks” - Hack no. 1: Check who's your biggest “stalker” without leaving Facebook (208)


  7. Through The Algorithm (2014) To a Free World (188)


  8. Ko koga špijunira u političkom vrhu BiH? (185)


  9. Papers We Love (152)


  10. Material Design in Linux (120)


Number of followers:


  * Wordpress followers: 10


  * Twitter followers: 103


Those stats are nothing special but I'm really proud of them. Now I'm starting to get over 50 visitors on a daily basis (in the last 15 days). After I got a pretty decent amount of initial attention, I've decided that this blog is a perfect way for me to express myself. That's why I'm going to take [Blogging 101](https://dailypost.wordpress.com/2014/12/29/blogging-101-january-registration/), a free online course (starting January the 5th) offered by Wordpress to further my knowledge of running a blog. After all, I love learning new things, which is the main reason why I started this blog in the first place.

I've got a huge (and I really mean **huge**) number of drafts prepared for 2015 so expect a new post at least two times a week.

Goals for 2015:




  * Over 30,000 views (7 times more than in 2014)


  * Over 20,000 visitors (8 times more than in 2014)


  * Over 1,000 Twitter followers (10 times more than in 2014)


Loving the support I'm getting from you guys and those numbers definitely suggest to me that I should keep posting. Thanks to every single one of you guys and a happy 2015!
