Mozilla, straighten up your priorities!

I keep talking about how dissatisfied I am with the path Mozilla is taking and they just keep surprising me (negatively, of course). So, let's do another post! You might want to read [the first one](https://blog.r3bl.me/en/mozilla-dissatisfaction/) before reading any further.

If you're too lazy to read it, here's a quick recap. If you have already read it, feel free to skip this list.

1. **Sync feature.** This was the first uncomfortable thing about Firefox that I have encountered. Sure, I trust Mozilla more then I trust any other company, but still, having my data stored in their server kind of feels... wrong. Besides that, for a syncing service, it doesn't do a great job of actually syncing things. My settings get completely ignored and I keep ending up customizing my look, removing search engines etc. every time I install Firefox again.
2. **Pocket integration.** I absolutely _loved_ Pocket before it was built into Firefox. After bundling it with Firefox, I got a bit freaked out and refused to use Pocket for quite some time. Then I have discovered that, apparently, Mozilla got no money for implementing Pocket, which absolutely does not make any sense. Why would anyone in their right mind implement a proprietary service into a FLOSS software without expecting _anything_ in return? But, after ranting about it for months, I basically said "fuck it" and started using Pocket again (it's an awesome service).
3. **Removing the option to choose a custom new tab.** So, I've got used to using the Beta version of Firefox. One day, I have upgraded to a new version and noticed that my new tab settings were restarted. Okay, so I went to `about:config`, typed in `newtab` and expected to be able to change it back. That is, until I found out that Mozilla decided to remove this function away from the browser because it was abused by a couple of Windows crapwares. But they didn't make it impossible to change the new tab page. All you need to do is to install a small addon (a couple of kilobytes in size) and you have the functionality back. So, what is actually stopping malware from implementing the same? Nothing. To make things worse, in the actual [bug report](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/questions/1077559), they have basically decided to mark every single comment that was against this change (dozens of them) as off-topic or advocacy. Not really a nice way to treat your powerusers.

Allright, back to the latest changes now.

I've been using Thunderbird for as long as I've been using Firefox. Maybe even longer. It's the only feature full desktop email client that I completely trust. So, when I've heard that they are shifting their development resources to something else, I was disappointed (to say the least).

I was hoping that whatever their next project is going to be is going to blow my mind. Then, they've announced Firefox OS! Sure, having Mozilla's OS on my smartphone sounded fucking amazing! I have not actually started using smartphone until August this year, because... well, I care about my privacy and having Google's or Apple's OS in my pocket sounded scary as fuck. I kind of hoped that something like Sailfish OS, Ubuntu Phone or Firefox OS will become available in my country, but that has never happened. Firefox OS made a deal with a carrier in a country next to mine, but there was absolutely no way of me actually getting one unless I had someone from that country who will sign a contract with the carrier (which I didn't have). Finally, on my birthday, I have decided to buy my first smartphone. Of course, I went with Android because it was the most open mobile OS system that I could actually get my hands on without any worries. I still end up looking at my [Google privacy settings](https://myaccount.google.com/privacy) and deleting my [Google history](https://history.google.com/history/) about twice per month because, no matter how hard you try, Google is going to bug you into enabling something scary until you lose your mind (for example, it asked me to send my location to Google for like 20 times in the last 7 days).

So yeah, having Mozilla's OS in my pocket sounded fucking awesome, but I have never actually managed to get my hands on a one.

Then, a couple of days ago, they have basically decided to give Thunderbird away to some other organization that's interested in maintaining it, because, obviously, it took them a huge part of their resources to maintain it... even though the community is mostly developing it for the last couple of years.

Sure, I figured out that this was a good idea. I hope that some cool project (maybe [LibreOffice](http://www.libreoffice.org/)?) is going to take over it and make it awesome once more. In the meantime, I was kind of expecting that Mozilla's going to keep making Firefox great and keep pushing Firefox OS worldwide. I kind of assumed that this is where they're focusing their efforts to.

Well, a day or two after that, my assumption got scattered. They have published Focus on iOS. An app that has absolutely no bond with their audience what so ever and that's not even freaking compatible with Focus on iOS. What the fuck were they even thinking when they have decided to develop that!? It makes no absolute fucking sense what so ever!

_But_, their next decision makes even less sense than that. They have basically decided to give up on the idea of pushing Firefox OS worldwide and decided to make it an IoT (Internet of Things) system! What the fuck!? The only possible IoT market that makes any sense to have Firefox OS on top of it is a smart TV market. But still, even there, pushing their OS 

**METADATA***
